---
layout: page
title: THE GUIDE
weight: 4
permalink: /guide/
---
## _The Virgin's Guide to RAGBRAI_

<p>First and foremost, congratulations on your wise decision to ride with the Perineum Falcons. You will probably not regret it.</p><p>The following information has been compiled to help guide you through your virgin RAGBRAI experience with the Perineum Falcons.</p>
<div aria-multiselectable="true" class="panel-group" id="accordion" role="tablist">
  <div class="panel panel-success"><div class="panel-heading" id="headingTwo" role="tab"><h2 class="panel-title"><a aria-controls="collapseTwo" aria-expanded="false" class="collapsed" data-parent="#accordion" data-toggle="collapse" href="#collapseTwo">Packing for RAGBRAI </a></h2></div><div aria-labelledby="headingTwo" class="panel-collapse collapse" id="collapseTwo" role="tabpanel"><div class="panel-body"><p>Packing for your first RAGBRAI can be a daunting task. Fortunately, the top brass of the Perineum Falcons&nbsp;have taken time out of their <a href="http://i.ytimg.com/vi/9nSWc43TLaI/maxresdefault.jpg">extraordinarily busy schedules</a> to provide you with this vigorously researched and exhaustively tested guide to help escort you through the packing process for your virgin RAGBRAI voyage.</p><h3>What you should bring</h3><h4>Personal Gear</h4><ul><li><strong>Money</strong>: Figure on about $25-$30 per day on breakfast burritos, pork chops, corn, pie and booze at the local bars. Also, consider pitching in a few dollars on supplemental team beer, Gatorade, Red Bull or whatever else comes up. Lastly, do not forget $300 in personal burial money.</li><li><strong>Street Clothes</strong>: Barely necessary. Pack light: 2 or 3 outfits, unless you&#39;re a female. Then, just try to keep it to a dozen or less, and don&#39;t forget your <a href="https://www.google.com/search?q=stilettos+shoes&amp;es_sm=91&amp;source=lnms&amp;tbm=isch&amp;sa=X&amp;ei=Tk1XVZL_NczxsAXL1oGwBg&amp;ved=0CAcQ_AUoAQ&amp;biw=1220&amp;bih=612">3 in. pumps</a>. The weather will be mostly hot as balls, but prepare for cool evenings.</li><li><strong>Shoes/Sandals</strong></li><li><strong>Toiletries</strong><ul><li>Soap</li><li>Shampoo</li><li>Deordorant</li><li>Toothbrush/Toothpaste</li><li>Feminine Hygiene Products, if you are feminine.</li><li><a href="http://antimonkeybutt.com">Anti-Monkey Butt Powder</a> or some equivocal swamp-ass remedy: Your undercarriage will thank you, as will your shorts.</li><li><a href="https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&amp;tbm=shop&amp;q=Flushable+wipes">Flushable wipes</a>: These goddamn things were made for RAGBRAI.</li></ul></li><li><strong>Raincoat</strong>: Skin is also water resistant. Consider nudity during rain showers.</li><li><strong>Towel</strong>: Nearly pointless in Iowa in July, as it will smell like a moldy basement after one use. But, you can use it to wipe stuff up, afterward.</li><li><strong>Waterproof Baggies</strong>: For anything you want to keep dry.</li><li><strong>Sunscreen</strong>: &hellip;and lots of it.</li><li><strong>Medication</strong>: Bring enough to share.</li><li><strong>Birth Control</strong>: Your preference: An Ovulation calendar and a thermometer, Birth Control Pills (or for the procrastinator, Morning After Pills), Condoms, Today&#39;s Sponge, a Super Soaker filled with Nonoxyl-9, or a jug of bleach. Just bring it... I&rsquo;m not asking, Arun.</li><li><strong><a href="http://i814.photobucket.com/albums/zz67/hoppress/PJ%20Hoberman/General/angry-liver.png">Your Liver</a></strong></li></ul><h4>Bike Gear</h4><ul><li><strong>Bike</strong>: Believe it or not, this is optional on RAGBRAI. There are many &quot;riders&quot; that dress the part only to ride the buses all week.</li><li><strong>Bicycle Helmet</strong>: If you have a Specialized brand helmet, it is mandatory that you scratch off the &quot;i&quot; and the &quot;z&quot; on all of the &quot;Specialized&quot; logo stickers.</li><li><strong>Cycling Shoes or <a href="https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&amp;tbm=shop&amp;q=SPD+Sandals">SPD Sandals</a></strong>: Marc will make fun of you if you wear SPD Sandals, but he understands your motivation.</li><li><strong>Cycling Shorts w/ Taint Padding</strong>: Optional, I guess... but at the end of the week, you&#39;ll be happy with any padding you can get.</li><li><strong>Sunglasses</strong></li><li><strong>Water Bottle(s)</strong>: 1 bottle for water and 1 bottle for liquor/fuel is recommended.</li><li><a href="https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&amp;tbm=shop&amp;q=Cycling+Multi-Tool"><strong>Compact Multi-Tool</strong></a>: For quick repairs, adjustments and opening beer bottles.</li><li><strong>Extra Tubes / Patch Kit / Compact Pump</strong>: Just ask Arun if extra tubes / patch kits are necessary...</li><li><strike><strong>Aerobar</strong>: Optional but highly recommended, both for aerodynamics and for optional hand/arm positions.</strike>&nbsp;- Joe says bikes with these are a pain to load on the bus.</li><li><strong>Lock</strong>: Not really necessary unless you&#39;re bike is worth more than your car. No guarantees.</li><li><strong>Headlight / Taillight</strong>: if you plan on riding at night.</li></ul><h4>Camping Gear</h4><ul><li><strong>Tent</strong>: Space efficient, weatherproof, and easy to set up in exhausted and shit-hammered drunk conditions.</li><li><strong>Sleeping bag / Blanket</strong>: Most sleeping bags are too effing hot for IA in July. Most opt for a light blanket and a sleeping pad (below) and get along just swimmingly.</li><li><a href="https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&amp;tbm=shop&amp;q=sleeping+pad"><strong>Sleeping pad</strong></a>: Optional, but recommended if you bring only a blanket.</li><li><strong>Pillow</strong>: ...for biting or whatever.</li><li><strong>Flashlight or <a href="https://www.google.com/search?tbm=shop&amp;q=headlamp">Headlamp</a></strong>: Although people will look at you funny, a headlamp can double as a flashlight / bike light / kybo light / reading light / sex light. Very useful.</li></ul><h3>What will be provided by the Perineum Falcons:</h3><h4>Community Gear:</h4><ul><li><strong><a href="/file/busjpg">The Perineum Falcon II</a></strong>: The team bus. Love it.</li><li><strong>10-Gallon Storage Tub</strong>: All of your personal shit must fit in here. Unless it doesn&#39;t. Assuming we have enough.</li><li><strong>Cellphone Chargers</strong>: Pretty popular amongst those smartphone users as their battery no longer lasts a day anymore.</li><li><strong>Illegal On-Bus Pisser</strong>: Notice it is not referred to as an illegal on-bus shitter. Let&#39;s keep it that way.</li><li><strong>120 qt Cooler:</strong>&nbsp;For Beer Only.</li><li><strong>80 qt Cooler:</strong> for Beer and whatnot.</li><li><strong>Trash and Recycling Cans</strong></li><li><strong>Leftover Swag from the yesteryears:</strong> Back when we were proactive enough to line up beer sponsors.</li><li><strong>Markers</strong>: For writing on buses, people, livestock, genitals, etc.</li></ul><h4>Bike Gear</h4><ul><li><strong>Floor Pump</strong></li><li><strong>Zip-Ties</strong></li><li><strong>Bungies</strong></li><li><strong>Basic Tools</strong></li><li><strong>Anything else:</strong> Just ask Frodo, he packs everything.</li></ul><h4>Camp Gear</h4><ul><li><strong>Bus Shower</strong>: We now have a pressurized and heated shower tent set up. Don't worry, it's still completely unreliable in keeping with team tradition.</li><li><strong>Camp Shower Privacy Tent</strong>: Optional.</li></ul></div></div></div>
<div class="panel panel-success"><div class="panel-heading" id="headingThree" role="tab"><h2 class="panel-title"><a aria-controls="collapseThree" aria-expanded="false" class="collapsed" data-parent="#accordion" data-toggle="collapse" href="#collapseThree">Perineum Falcons Guide to Lactating on Ragbrai</a></h2></div><div aria-labelledby="headingThree" class="panel-collapse collapse" id="collapseThree" role="tabpanel"><div class="panel-body"><p>We tried to out a mini fridge on the bus my first time to save the milk. The bus couldn't handle it. So mike dumped most of my milk. It was kind of freeing bc then I could drink without worry. The last time I pumped with the twins I rode just one day so any time I pumped near the bus I tossed my milk in the cooler which worked out well. You'll need to drink tons of water and expect a slight dip in production which may or may not be temp/perm. Although i did tend to stretch out my pumps longer compared to when nursing but you don't have to do that. I just fucking hate pumping so much.</p><p>
It was much easier with a pump with a battery pack. With a nursing cover I've pumped in bars and been recognized years later, rest areas on the side of the ride with many people around, and I've even asked strangers of I could pump in their home (in front of 13 mounted deer heads). Its not for the shy but if you are determined you can make it work. We stop for beer so frequently it worked out. I always pumped before bed and with any wee ones would pump in the middle of the night, sometimes on the bus but watch out for bus sleepers or people with middle of the night pee breaks.</p><p>You are not required to share your milk with anyone else, but men are fascinatingly curious about EBM and super willing to try it which makes for some fun stories. It tastes good with Rumchata!</p>
  <p><strong><em>-JB</em></strong></p>
<p><strong><em>Addendum by MJ</em></strong>- Pumping breast milk in bars wins you things like "best left tit award" and makes you "Ragbrai Famous".</p></div></div></div>
</div>
